## IS 340 Final Paper W8resources.com
Nancy Ruiz
Summer 2023


### Abstract  
This paper is about an open source website that helps overweight or obese people find resources that will help them achieve their weight loss goals. According to the National Institute of Diabetes, over two in five adults are obese and almost one in three adults are overweight in the United States (NIDDK, 2021). The purpose of the website is to provide a composite resource that provides information regarding gym memberships, exercise classes, healthy eating recipes, etc. Since the ultimate goal of the website is to provide users with information regarding a wide array of resources, the open source nature allows communities to contribute to the website and add new features that improve the functionality of the website. Information regarding weight loss is typically found in separate websites. This open source website will provide convenience for its users as it will contain all sorts of information.

### Introduction     

I decided to write about a website that would help people access weight loss resources because it can be very useful considering obesity is a struggle many people face in the United States. I have also embarked on my own weight loss journey which means I am constantly searching for exercise classes or healthy eating recipes. I access a multitude of platforms or open many tabs to search for information regarding food or exercise. A website like w8resources will help people like me find everything they are looking for in one place. 
Another reason the website is useful is because it gives beginners a place to start. Many may feel reluctant to embark on their weight loss journey because they do not know where to start. W8 resources can ultimately help boost confidence and morale as it can serve as a directory for people seeking weight loss resources. The website is beginner friendly but can also be useful for those who are farther along their weight loss or fitness journey. The website can be useful for many other people as well. For instance, fitness enthusiasts with no weight loss goals can still use the website to discover more ways to stay healthy. 

### Target Audience
The target audience of the website are mainly people who want to embark on a weight loss or health journey. The website is beginner friendly as it offers users with information regarding gym memberships and meal recipes. This can ultimately serve as a great place to start because it has all of the necessary resources. The website can also be very useful for fitness and health enthusiasts who may look for new ways to be active. W8resources can help them find workout classes near them which can ultimately foster a sense of community and allow them to connect with others. Personal trainers will also be able to use the website to assist in the development of workout plans for their clients. 
Due to the fact that it is an open source website, gym or studio owners are also able to input information regarding their fitness center. This helps them promote their fitness center and increase sign ups for memberships or classes. They can also use the website as inspiration for fitness classes or meal plans. Certain gyms provide nutrition information to their members. They sometimes also provide the option to purchase meals or drinks. 
The website is also useful for those who want to find budget friendly workout or meal options. Most workout classes such as pilates classes and yoga classes, tend to be very costly. A single pilates class can cost upwards of fifty dollars. W8resources can help users access information regarding promotions or budget friendly options. It is a lot more efficient for people to open one page that shows them which studios are offering discounts as opposed to navigating to multiple websites to search for ongoing deals. 

### Open Source
Since the website is intended to have many features, the open source nature helps maximize the functionality of the website. Since many people can work collaboratively to build the website, the development of the website can be accelerated. My knowledge on website development is limited. This means that if I was the only person working on the website, its development would reflect my limited knowledge. Since the website is open source, individuals with more skill are able to take it farther than I could have. If there was only one person or a small group of people working on the website, it would take much longer to add new features or content to the website which means the website would not be as useful. Additionally, the collaborative effort of an open source website allows skilled contributors to provide their input in a cost efficient manner. This means that the website is maintained and developed by many contributors at a much lower cost as opposed to hiring and compensating professionals to work on it. 

### Community 
There are many ways to recruit people to contribute to the development of the website. In order to attract users and contributors, websites such as reddit or quora can be used to capture people’s attention. Reddit is a platform where people can create discussion threads about any topic they like. People are able to use reddit to ask questions or comment on other user’s posts. 
Those who access Reddit to find ways to expand their resume may be interested in contributing to w8resources. They are able to access information regarding the website and identify possible contributions they can make towards it. Although they would not be compensated for their work, they can include their contributions in their resume. 
Additionally, the website itself would have its own discussion forum where users can talk about what they want to see on the website. They can also suggest improvements or talk about what they are satisfied with. Users are also able to communicate and connect with one another through the discussion forum. Fostering a sense of community in the health or fitness industry can help people connect with like minded individuals. Users are able to support and encourage one another which helps increase motivation and accountability. 

### License 
When it comes to open source licenses there are two categories that they fall into. The first one being Copyleft license and the second one being Permissive license. The copyleft license is used for protection of your software as it prevents others from copyrighting, owing, or receiving any royalties from the copyright (Licenses, 2024). Meanwhile, the Permissive license carries minimal restrictions regarding the distribution and use of the software (Licenses, 2024). This allows for developers to reuse the code to create new programs or use it however they want with little to no requirements. I would implement a General Public License so people are able to make modifications and fix ongoing issues or add new features (Licenses, 2024). The General Public License is preferable over the MIT license because it is more restrictive. 

### Scaling and Sustainability
Getting people to work on an open source project can be very difficult. Persuading people to continue making improvements when they are not getting paid for them is a challenge many open source developers face. In the 2024 job market, many people are being laid off or find it difficult to get job offers. Many jobs also require a couple years of experience to be considered for employment. 
Businesses are outsourcing to different countries to reduce labor costs. This means that people are left with more free time which they can use to further their technical skills. For those who have been laid off or struggle to find employment, open source can serve as an opportunity to gain experience and expand on programming or project management skills. 
It is important to highlight the non monetary benefits of working on an open source project to motivate contributors to continue working on the website over time. Open source projects also allow contributors to receive and embrace feedback and constructive criticism which they can use to make improvements. This ultimately allows people to gather learning experiences that will shape their professional development. 
It is important to continue raising awareness for the open source website through platforms such as Reddit and Quora. The website would be advertised to people who want to gain experience or people who are passionate about health and fitness. It can also be useful to discuss the open source project on University forums so current and former students can contribute. 
The success of an open source project is heavily dependent on voluntary contribution. Some people contribute to open source websites because they use it for their own benefit and would like to see changes. Providing resources to new contributors to ease their transition to the community of developers can also be very useful. 

### Development
Phase 1 - The first step is to create mockups of the UI, the layout of the website, the logo, and lastly the website name. Once this is done the third step is to choose a tech stack that I want to use. This is important because I want to use tools and languages that people are most familiar with as this would make it easier for people to contribute. Lastly, I will create a timeframe for my development process as this will help me keep track of my tasks.
Phase 2 - In phase 2 I will develop the website using tools and coding languages such as HTML, CSS, and Javascript. I will ensure it is responsive so it can be viewed and accessed from any device. Lastly, I will create documentation of what the code does and its purpose as this will help contributors track and understand developments which will ultimately make it easier for them to contribute.
Phase 3 - I will be testing the website and its features. I will allow a certain number of users of different experience levels to contribute to the website and implement new features. This is to make sure that they can contribute and understand my code and its documentation. Lastly, I will ensure that any security implementations are working as they should like moderators.
Phase 4 - I deploy the website and promote it as we need contributors to sustain the website since their input and contributions will ensure its longevity and success.  
When it comes to choosing the best tech stack for my website I would choose HTML, CSS, and Javascript for the front end and MongoDB for the back end. I chose to use these since they are the programs that most people are most familiar with when it comes to web development. I decided to use MongoDB for my backend instead of MySQL because mongoDB stores their data in a JSON format which is a lot more flexible and easier to work with alongside Javascript. This is because the main goal of open source is to have many different contributors.


### Conclusion      

W8resources helps people facilitate their weight loss or fitness journeys by providing them with ample resources regarding food and exercise. It also helps build a sense of community through the implementation of discussion forums where like minded people can connect. The discussion forum also enables communication between the contributors and users of W8resources. In this way, contributors are able to identify issues and improvements that can be made. Highlighting the benefits of working on open source projects can increase loyalty and persuade people to continue developing the website. Providing resources regarding the existing code can welcome newcomers and provide others with learning experiences. 



### References     
“Licenses.” Choose a License, https://choosealicense.com/licenses/. Accessed 2 May 2024.
“Overweight & Obesity Statistics - NIDDK.” National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/health-statistics/overweight-obesity. Accessed 26 Apr. 2024.
