## IS340 Final Paper: "PostPhyz"
Daniel Belzer, Summer 2023

### Abstract   
In this paper, I will write an overview of my open-source project and how it will affect the community and its users. The purpose of writing this paper is for the readers to understand the goals and objectives of my open-source project and to discuss the methods I will incorporate into this project for the benefit of the community. I will be applying knowledge I have obtained through the lectures of Professor Alicea to bring my project to fruition. 

### Purpose
The main purpose of this platform is to provide a social networking website that brings post graduate college students together to network, collaborate, and engage in friendly physical activities and competitions in order to obtain deeper connections with other people who are involved in the platform. There are millions of college graduates in the United States every year with that number only continuing to grow. Some of these people choose to move back to their home, or to their hometowns, which leaves many other students without friends and family around them because of their necessity to move for whatever the reason may be. Instead of people trying to reconnect with past friends and acquaintances, this platform will help those that find themselves in unfamiliar situations or new places and allow them to connect with other people who are experiencing some of the same things. Another purpose of this platform is to help people connect with others as this has become more difficult to accomplish because of the worldwide pandemic we suffered through. This brought out mental health issues, physical health issues, and problems with connecting humans together. The website will be able to help people who may fit into these categories with activities and competitions that can push prospective new members to be a part of the community they now find themselves in. I also want to make sure that my website is domestically viable and is accessible to anybody within geographical guidelines. We are also looking to cater to more types of people with the more users we obtain as growth of the user base every month is key in keeping this website and platform out in the news, online, or on social media. Sponsorship is also on the table with the communities that are heavily involved within the platform. We want to look at big cities and their neighborhoods as two geographic markers to highlight for possible sponsorship. Big cities often come with big company locations, and I feel this would be the most viable option to obtain sponsorship within the platform. 

### Target Audience
In the creation of this platform, our initial target audience are young adults aged twenty-one and over. We chose this set of people to target for many reasons. There are many more college graduates and students that would now be looking to get out and interact with people and to gain connections as that is what their experience has been while physically at school. This mindset will put those people back into the ways of college where they can meet new people every day and find new friends and experiences. More than 30% of college graduates move back home when finished with school. Why is this important? It can often times lead to states of depression, regression and sometimes anger with the way that their life is heading (Candys Dirt, 2021). This in turn, can lead to many of these people shutting down socially and even emotionally depending on the users’ situation (Accredited Schools Online, 2023). Our goal is help those who are suffering from any of these situations, and to connect them with others who may be going through the same or have in the past, so they are able to obtain the friendship aspect, and also receive some advice and information about the methods and procedures they used to get past their issues. We are also looking at graduates who have some form of knowledge surrounding technology, with specificity to coding because they are better able to navigate the webpage and eventually the application. Of course, the demographics and data we obtain from the users will be analyzed and processed to make efficient decisions on the present and future of this platform. 

### Principles
There are many open-source principles that I will be incorporating into this platform. The most important being transparency. Giving the user clear, concise, and accurate information will only help with the trust that users and developers obtain from one another. I believe that giving the user the option on how they would like to interact and navigate the platform overall helps with the collaboration aspect of building a successful networking platform. Collaboration is an enormous positive that all websites and companies should employ in their business habits and my website is no different. User feedback is one of the most vital pieces of development for a platform of this magnitude. Open communication between the user and the developers is extremely important towards the successful implementation of the website for the user. This ties hand in hand with transparency as both are vastly important towards the user staying engaged and connected with the platform and with other users. The online community is one that stretches far beyond comprehension as we see people from all over the world be a part of it. However, the physical communities that we can see right in front of our eyes are the ones that must be involved within an open-sourced project such as this one. I want to make sure that each community involved within the platform has some idea of how to use it, how to improve it, and how to maintain it. I want to have my team of developers meet bi-weekly to discuss any changes or modifications that need to be made internally. Internal discussions are also vital for the sustainability of our platform as we must have the updated versions of all software working efficiently and together to make this project as successful as we possibly can. On top of the meetings with the team of developers, we also want to have weekly meetings with our users and stakeholders to discuss any positives or negatives they associate with the platform and have discussions to push those ideas and concepts forward. We created this website for the users and if their feedback and comments are not involved within decision making processes, then why would we ask them for their thoughts. All of these factors will help in the sustainability of this website as we look toward the future of this platform. 

### Features
There are many great features that “PostPhyz” will offer its users. An assortment of networking opportunities are presented first hand on this platform. It allows post graduate college students the opportunity to learn from others of different disciplines and interests. Users have the tools and knowledge necessary to connect, communicate, and collaborate with others in order to create friendships and bonds. We will do this through the use of physical activities and competitions that range from step challenges, virtual races, sport tournaments, and fitness challenges. This is the feature that embraces the culture of physical activity that often connects people together. We see all the time how sports make the world a better place because of the connections and bonds that are formed through participation or as a fan. We are incorporating this idea heavily into the structure and features of our platform. This project has an open-source foundation as we encourage collaboration and contributions from the domestic communities we are involved with. The codebase and other project resources themselves are freely accessible, which allows individuals and institutions to customize and enhance the platform according to the needs of said people. This statement often goes overlooked because of the gritty details of technology that not many people understand fully, but this is very important for the continued success of the website. One of the most exciting features that we are integrating within our platform is facilitating virtual and physical interactions. We felt as though this was important to include because not every person is comfortable going out and meeting people physically. The website will offer virtual interactions for those in need of this feature, and it will also offer in-person meetups and events. These events will be held at various institutions, universities and business sites. These gatherings will offer post graduate college students the opportunity to meet fellow participants face-to-face which can strengthen their bonds with one another via the use of “PostPhyz”. 

### Licensing & Tech
There is a bunch of technology that I will be employing on my website starting with copyleft licensing policies. I want to use a General Public License as this allows for the source code to be open and free with any modifications made being welcome to the public at any time (GNU Project, 2007). I feel this could be great for the developers of the platform as they can see any mistakes or bugs that could be hiding, and they can also pick up new ideas for features of other software they may find to be beneficial. I would like to host the source code on GitHub as it has the easiest access point, and it is the most popular place to host code of any sort. I feel that my targeted marketing will work great here because their knowledge of technology can lead those who are seeking to improve any part of the platform directly to the tools responsible of doing so. The main coding languages that will be employed are HTML and CSS for the physical creation of the website. I chose these languages because they are the best ones to be able to customize the website and add details that can change the experience of the user. The user interface is one of the most important components to building a website as we want the user to be able to navigate and explore the platform with all the tools and resources available to them to ask questions, give feedback, and offer suggestions for the future. I will also be incorporating a MySQL database into the website with content and traffic moderators who will be monitoring constantly. I want to use a BSD license for this database work because I do not want anybody to have access to the informational databases that we update and add to the growing lists of users. I feel there is more than sufficient technology use within the creation of this platform that it will be a resounding success in our goals and objectives. 

### Marketing & Sustainability
We have methods and plans in place to make sure that this platform is sustainable for future use. Advertising to large cities and college towns are two fantastic places to get the word out as they have the most densely populated areas where our website could be successful. Partnering with some of these big cities and their sport teams and organizations would be massive for the potential new user to join as many people are drawn to larger-than-life entities such as celebrities, professional athletes, and businesses and organizations. Meeting with the users in these densely populated areas is key for community engagement as we want our consumers to have their voices listened to and their ideas heard. We also want to institute version control on GitHub because I want my team of developers to be able to monitor new updates, new software, or new security features. This is important for the back-end development of the website as without version control, anybody can investigate the code and create something different using the code we have written. But modifications by the users can be crucial for the survival of the website, so it is vital that the developers have access to it as well in case any new versions come to light. It is important to keep security measures as up to date as possible for the most efficient running website for the users and developers. 

### Conclusion
Overall “PostPhyz” has evolved from its humble beginnings as an open-source project, but it has now changed into a thriving domestic community that has redefined the methods that post graduate college students are able to connect with others in environments they may or may not be familiar with. The dedication to our users in creating a user-friendly interface and platform has been our goal from the start of this project. Once isolated young adults, they now have the resources and opportunities available to them to come together in a supportive and inspiring community to promote physical health and activities, and to foster connections with others. Moving forward, the vision of “PostPhyz” remains clear: continue to evolve and adapt to the needs of our users while staying true to the roots of this project in an ethical and responsible manner. We will continue to strive to create an inclusive platform that embraces diversity and welcomes new users all over the United States. With the help of user feedback, we will continue to enhance the capabilities and accessibility of our platform and only aim to suit our users needs to the very best of our ability here at “PostPhyz”.

### References
"How to Survive Moving Back Home After College." Accredited Schools Online, 2023, https://www.accreditedschoolsonline.org/resources/how-to-survive-moving-back-home-after-college/.

"Survey Shows That Many Students Opt for Relocation After Graduation." Candy's Dirt, 8 Nov. 2021, https://candysdirt.com/2021/11/08/survey-shows-that-many-students-opt-for-relocation-after-graduation/.

"GNU General Public License version 3.0." GNU Project, Free Software Foundation, 29 June 2007, https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.


